---
title: "Lecture: Nobel Laureate Donna Strickland will be visiting and talking at McGill!"
date: 2019-10-22
summary: "Donna Strickland, winner of the Physics Nobel Prize 2018, will be giving 2 talks at McGill next month! Firstly, a public talk with no previous physics knowledge required will occur on Thursday November 7th at 18:30 (Stephen Leacock Building, Leacock Auditorium - room 132). Secondly, the Anna I. McPherson Scientific Lecture will be on Friday, November 8th 2019, 15:30 (McIntyre Medical Building, room 522)."
---

#### Nobel Laureate Donna Strickland Talks

We are honoured to have Donna Strickland present at two talks next month! Please be sure to arrive early to guarentee yourself a seat.

*Thursday, November 7th 2019, 18:30 (Stephen Leacock Building, Leacock Auditorium - room 132)*

	  2019/20 Anna I. McPherson Public Lecture

	  Generating High-Intensity, Ultrashort Optical Pulses

	  Donna Strickland
	  
	  Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Waterloo
    
    Abstract:
    
    With the invention of lasers, the intensity of a light wave was increased by orders of magnitude over what had been achieved with a light bulb or sunlight. This much higher intensity led to new phenomena being observed, such as violet light coming out when red light went into the material. After Gérard Mourou and I developed chirped pulse amplification, also known as CPA, the intensity again increased by more than a factor of 1,000 and it once again made new types of interactions possible between light and matter. We developed a laser that could deliver short pulses of light that knocked the electrons off their atoms. This new understanding of laser-matter interactions, led to the development of new machining techniques that are used in laser eye surgery or micromachining of glass used in cell phones.




*Friday, November 8th 2019, 15:30 (McIntyre Medical Building, room 522)*

    2019/20 Anna I. McPherson Scientific Lecture

    From Nonlinear Optics to High-Intensity Laser Physics

    Donna Strickland

    Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Waterloo

    Abstract:

    The laser increased the intensity of light that can be generated by orders of magnitude and thus brought about nonlinear optical interactions with matter. Chirped pulse amplification, also known as CPA, changed the intensity level by a few more orders of magnitude and helped usher in a new type of laser-matter interaction that is referred to as high-intensity laser physics. In this talk, I will discuss the differences between nonlinear optics and high-intensity laser physics. The development of CPA and why short, intense laser pulses can cut transparent material will also be included. I will also discuss future applications.